Load env variables from env files or secrets (#1121)
imgproxy/imgproxy: docs/loading_environment_variables.md

# Loading environment variables

> imgproxy can load environment variables from various sources such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
imgproxy can load environment variables from various sources, such as:
```

> * [Local file](#local-file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Local file](#local-file)
```
This should either be "a local file" or "local files", whichever is more correct. I think usually the first one.

* [AWS Secrets Manager](#aws-secrets-manager)
* [AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store](#aws-systems-manager-parameter-store)
* [Google Cloud Secret Manager](#google-cloud-secret-manager)

## Local file

You can create an [environment file](#environment-file-syntax) and configure imgproxy to read environment variables from it.

> * `IMGPROXY_ENV_LOCAL_FILE_PATH`: the path of the environmebt file to load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_LOCAL_FILE_PATH`: the path of the environment file to load
```
@DarthSim typo here

## AWS Secrets Manager

> You can store the content of an [environment file](#environment-file-syntax) in AWS Secrets Manager secret and configure imgproxy to read environment variables from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can store the content of an [environment file](#environment-file-syntax) in AWS Secrets Manager secret and configure imgproxy to read environment variables from it.
```

something is wrong here. "AWS Secrets Manager secret" -- is the second "secret" supposed to be there? if so, a word is missing

Reviewer: No, your correction seems correct to me. 
```suggestion
You can store the content of an [environment file](#environment-file-syntax) in an AWS Secrets Manager secret and configure imgproxy to read environment variables from it.
```

Reviewer: could also be "as" a secret. whichever you think is better.

* `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_ID`: the ARN or name of the secret to load
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_VERSION_ID`: _(optional)_ the unique identifier of the version of the secret to load
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_VERSION_STAGE`: _(optional)_ the staging label of the version of the secret to load
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_REGION`: _(optional)_ the region of the secret to load

**📝 Note:** If both `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_VERSION_ID` and `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_VERSION_STAGE` are set, `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SECRET_VERSION_STAGE` will be ignored

> ### Set up AWS Secrets Manager credentials

Author: ```suggestion
### Setting up AWS Secrets Manager credentials
```

* **Elastic Container Service (ECS):** Assign an [IAM role to a task](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html).
* **Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS):** Assign a [service account to a pod](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/pod-configuration.html).
* **Elastic Beanstalk:** Assign an [IAM role to an instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/iam-instanceprofile.html).

#### Environment variables

You can specify an AWS Access Key ID and a Secret Access Key by setting the standard `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.

``` bash
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=my_access_key AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=my_secret_key imgproxy

# same for Docker
docker run -e AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=my_access_key -e AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=my_secret_key -it darthsim/imgproxy
```

#### Shared credentials file

Alternatively, you can create the `.aws/credentials` file in your home directory with the following content:

```ini
[default]
aws_access_key_id = %access_key_id
aws_secret_access_key = %secret_access_key
```

## AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store

> You can store multiple AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store entries and configure imgproxy to load their values to separate environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can store multiple AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store entries and configure imgproxy to load their values to separate environment variables.
```
instead of "load" maybe it should "assign"?

Reviewer: the reason I suggest is because we deal with multiple environments and it sounds kind of odd in that context

* `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SSM_PARAMETERS_PATH`: the [path](#aws-systems-manager-path) of the parameters to load
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SSM_PARAMETERS_REGION`: _(optional)_ the region of the parameters to load

### AWS Systems Manager path

Let's assume that you created the following AWS Systems Manager parameters:

* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_KEY`
* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_SALT`
* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_CLOUD_WATCH/SERVICE_NAME`
* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_CLOUD_WATCH/NAMESPACE`
* `/imgproxy/staging/IMGPROXY_KEY`

> If you set `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SSM_PARAMETERS_PATH` to `/imgproxy/prod`, imgproxy will load these parameters the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set `IMGPROXY_ENV_AWS_SSM_PARAMETERS_PATH` to `/imgproxy/prod`, imgproxy will load these parameters as follows:
```

* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_KEY` value will be loaded to `IMGPROXY_KEY`
* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_SALT` value will be loaded to `IMGPROXY_SALT`
* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_CLOUD_WATCH/SERVICE_NAME` value will be loaded to `IMGPROXY_CLOUD_WATCH_SERVICE_NAME`
* `/imgproxy/prod/IMGPROXY_CLOUD_WATCH/NAMESPACE` value will be loaded to `IMGPROXY_CLOUD_WATCH_NAMESPACE`
* `/imgproxy/staging/IMGPROXY_KEY` will be ignored since its path is not `/imgproxy/prod`

> ### Set up AWS Systems Manager credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting up AWS Systems Manager credentials
```

#### Environment variables

You can specify an AWS Access Key ID and a Secret Access Key by setting the standard `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables.

``` bash
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=my_access_key AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=my_secret_key imgproxy

# same for Docker
docker run -e AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=my_access_key -e AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=my_secret_key -it darthsim/imgproxy
```

#### Shared credentials file

Alternatively, you can create the `.aws/credentials` file in your home directory with the following content:

```ini
[default]
aws_access_key_id = %access_key_id
aws_secret_access_key = %secret_access_key
```

## Google Cloud Secret Manager

You can store the content of an [environment file](#environment-file-syntax) in Google Cloud Secret Manager secret and configure imgproxy to read environment variables from it.

* `IMGPROXY_ENV_GCP_SECRET_ID`: the name of the secret to load
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_GCP_SECRET_VERSION_ID`: _(optional)_ the unique identifier of the version of the secret to load
* `IMGPROXY_ENV_GCP_SECRET_PROJECT_ID`: the name or ID of the Google Cloud project that contains the secret

### Setup credentials

> If you run imgproxy inside Google Cloud infrastructure (Compute Engine, Kubernetes Engine, App Engine, Cloud Functions, etc), and you have granted access to the specified secret to the service account, you probably don't need to do anything here. imgproxy will try to use the credentials provided by Google.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're running imgproxy inside the Google Cloud infrastructure (Compute Engine, Kubernetes Engine, App Engine, Cloud Functions, etc), and you have granted access to the specified secret to the service account, you probably don't need to do anything here. imgproxy will try to use the credentials provided by Google.
```

> Otherwise, set `IMGPROXY_ENV_GCP_KEY` environment variable to the content of Google Cloud JSON key. Get more info about JSON keys: [https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, set the `IMGPROXY_ENV_GCP_KEY` environment variable to the content of Google Cloud JSON key. Get more info about JSON keys here: [https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys).
```

## Environment file syntax

The following syntax rules apply to environment files:

* Blank lines are ignored
* Lines beginning with `#` are processed as comments and ignored

> * Each line represents a key-value pair. Values can optionally be quoted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each line represents a key-value pair. Values can optionally be quoted:
```
something is wrong. "quoted" here sounds like цитаты

Did you mean, "Optionally, values can be encased in quotes:"

Author: That's exactly what I meant 👍

  * `VAR=VAL` -> `VAL`
  * `VAR="VAL"` -> `VAL`
  * `VAR='VAL'` -> `VAL`

> * Unquoted and double-quoted (`"`) values have variable substitution applied:

Reviewer: FYI, here's it's ok if you establish the context earlier

  * `VAR=${OTHER_VAR}` -> value of `OTHER_VAR`
  * `VAR=$OTHER_VAR` -> value of `OTHER_VAR`
  * `VAR="$OTHER_VAR"` -> value of `OTHER_VAR`
  * `VAR="${OTHER_VAR}"` -> value of `OTHER_VAR`
* Single-quoted (`'`) values are used literally:
  * `VAR='$OTHER_VAR'` -> `$OTHER_VAR`
  * `VAR='${OTHER_VAR}'` -> `${OTHER_VAR}`
* Double quotes in double-quoted (`"`) values can be escaped with `\`:
  * `VAR="{\"hello\": \"json\"}"` -> `{"hello": "json"}`

> * Slash (`\`) in double-quoted values can be escaped with another slash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Slashes (`\`) in double-quoted values can be escaped with another slash:
```
